AIE/FIR_Interpolation/README.md, before:

# FIR Interpolation

  
![](./Images/block.png)  

## Library

AI Engine/DSP/Buffer IO

## Description

This block implements the FIR Asymmetric Interpolation filter targeted
for AI Engines.

## Parameters

### Main  
#### Input data type/Output data type  
Describes the type of individual data samples input to and output from
the filter function. int16, cint16, int32, cint32, float, cfloat.

#### Filter coefficients data type  
Describes the type of individual coefficients of the filter taps. It
should be one of int16, cint16, int32, cint32, float, cfloat and must
also satisfy the following rules:

  - Complex types are only supported when the Input/Output data type is
  also complex.
  - 32-bit types are only supported when the Input/Output data type is
  also a 32-bit type.
  - Filter coefficients data type must be an integer type if the
  Input/Output data type is an integer type.
  - Filter coefficients data type must be a float type if the Input/Output
  data type is a float type.

#### Specify filter coefficients via input port  
When this option is enabled, the tool allows you to specify reloadable
filter coefficients via the input port.

#### Provide second set of output ports
When this option is enabled, a second output port is added to the block producing the same data as the first output port.

#### Filter coefficients  
Specifies the filter coefficients as a vector of (N+1)/4+1 elements,
where 'N' is a positive integer that represents the filter length and
must be in the range 4 to 240 inclusive.

#### Filter length
When using reloadable filter coefficients, use this parameter to specify the number of taps in the filter.

#### Interpolation factor  
An unsigned integer which describes the interpolation factor of the
filter. It must be in the range 1 to 16.

#### Input window size (Number of samples)  
Describes the number of samples used as an input to the filter function.
The number of values in the output window will be Input window size
multiplied by interpolation factor.

#### Scale output down by 2^  
Describes power of 2 shift down applied to the accumulation of FIR terms
before output. It must be in range 0 to 61.

#### Rounding mode

Describes the selection of rounding to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **Floor:** Truncate LSB, always round down (towards negative infinity).
* **Ceiling:** Always round up (towards positive infinity).
* **Round to positive infinity:** Round halfway towards positive infinity.
* **Round to negative infinity:** Round halfway towards negative infinity.
* **Round symmetrical to infinity:** Round halfway towards infinity (away from zero).
* **Round symmetrical to zero:** Round halfway towards zero (away from infinity).
* **Round convergent to even:** Round halfway towards nearest even number.
* **Round convergent to odd:** Round halfway towards nearest odd number.

No rounding is performed on the **Floor** or **Ceiling** modes. Other modes round to the nearest integer. They differ only in how they round for values that are exactly between two integers.

#### Saturation mode

Describes the selection of saturation to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **None:** No saturation is performed and the value is truncated on the MSB side.
* **Asymmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)` to `2^(n-1)-1`.
* **Symmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)-1` to `2^(n-1)-1`.

#### Number of interpolator polyphases

Specifies the number of interpolator polyphases over which the coefficients will be split to enable parallel computation of the outputs. The polyphases are executed in parallel; output data is produced by each polyphase directly. This parameter does not affect the number of input data paths; there will be `(SSR)` input phases irrespective of the value of this parameter.

* An interpolator polyphase value equal to the interpolation factor will result in an interpolate factor of polyphases, where each kernel is a single rate filter.
* An interpolator polyphase value less than the interpolation factor will result in the polyphase branches operating as independent interpolators.

The number of AI Engine tiles used is given by `(Number of interpolator polyphases) * (SSR)^2 * (Number of cascade stages)`.

#### Number of cascade stages  
This determines the number of kernels the FIR will be divided over in series to improve throughput.

## Examples

***Click on the images below to open each model.***

[![](./Images/FIR_Interpolation_Ex1.png)](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/2024.2/Examples/Block_Help/AIE/FIR_InterpolationFilter_Ex1)

[![](./Images/FIR_Interpolation_Ex2.png)](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/2024.2/Examples/Block_Help/AIE/FIR_InterpolationFilter_Ex2)

[![](./Images/FIR_Interpolation_Ex3.png)](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/2024.2/Examples/Block_Help/AIE/FIR_InterpolationFilter_Ex3)

--------------
Copyright (C) 2024 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
All rights reserved.

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

Commit message:

Update links to DSP library documentation

AIE/FIR_Interpolation/README.md, after:

# FIR Interpolation

  
![](./Images/block.png)  

## Library

AI Engine/DSP/Buffer IO

## Description

This block implements the FIR Asymmetric Interpolation filter targeted
for AI Engines.

## Parameters

### Main  
#### Input data type/Output data type  
Describes the type of individual data samples input to and output from
the filter function. int16, cint16, int32, cint32, float, cfloat.

#### Filter coefficients data type  
Describes the type of individual coefficients of the filter taps. It
should be one of int16, cint16, int32, cint32, float, cfloat and must
also satisfy the following rules:

  - Complex types are only supported when the Input/Output data type is
  also complex.
  - 32-bit types are only supported when the Input/Output data type is
  also a 32-bit type.
  - Filter coefficients data type must be an integer type if the
  Input/Output data type is an integer type.
  - Filter coefficients data type must be a float type if the Input/Output
  data type is a float type.

#### Specify filter coefficients via input port  
When this option is enabled, the tool allows you to specify reloadable
filter coefficients via the input port.

#### Provide second set of output ports
When this option is enabled, a second output port is added to the block producing the same data as the first output port.

#### Filter coefficients  
Specifies the filter coefficients as a vector of (N+1)/4+1 elements,
where 'N' is a positive integer that represents the filter length and
must be in the range 4 to 240 inclusive.

#### Filter length
When using reloadable filter coefficients, use this parameter to specify the number of taps in the filter.

#### Interpolation factor  
An unsigned integer which describes the interpolation factor of the
filter. It must be in the range 1 to 16.

#### Input window size (Number of samples)  
Describes the number of samples used as an input to the filter function.
The number of values in the output window will be Input window size
multiplied by interpolation factor.

#### Scale output down by 2^  
Describes power of 2 shift down applied to the accumulation of FIR terms
before output. It must be in range 0 to 61.

#### Rounding mode

Describes the selection of rounding to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **Floor:** Truncate LSB, always round down (towards negative infinity).
* **Ceiling:** Always round up (towards positive infinity).
* **Round to positive infinity:** Round halfway towards positive infinity.
* **Round to negative infinity:** Round halfway towards negative infinity.
* **Round symmetrical to infinity:** Round halfway towards infinity (away from zero).
* **Round symmetrical to zero:** Round halfway towards zero (away from infinity).
* **Round convergent to even:** Round halfway towards nearest even number.
* **Round convergent to odd:** Round halfway towards nearest odd number.

No rounding is performed on the **Floor** or **Ceiling** modes. Other modes round to the nearest integer. They differ only in how they round for values that are exactly between two integers.

#### Saturation mode

Describes the selection of saturation to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **None:** No saturation is performed and the value is truncated on the MSB side.
* **Asymmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)` to `2^(n-1)-1`.
* **Symmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)-1` to `2^(n-1)-1`.

#### Number of interpolator polyphases

Specifies the number of interpolator polyphases over which the coefficients will be split to enable parallel computation of the outputs. The polyphases are executed in parallel; output data is produced by each polyphase directly. This parameter does not affect the number of input data paths; there will be `(SSR)` input phases irrespective of the value of this parameter.

* An interpolator polyphase value equal to the interpolation factor will result in an interpolate factor of polyphases, where each kernel is a single rate filter.
* An interpolator polyphase value less than the interpolation factor will result in the polyphase branches operating as independent interpolators.

The number of AI Engine tiles used is given by `(Number of interpolator polyphases) * (SSR)^2 * (Number of cascade stages)`.

#### Number of cascade stages  
This determines the number of kernels the FIR will be divided over in series to improve throughput.

## Examples

***Click on the images below to open each model.***

[![](./Images/FIR_Interpolation_Ex1.png)](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/2024.2/Examples/Block_Help/AIE/FIR_InterpolationFilter_Ex1)

[![](./Images/FIR_Interpolation_Ex2.png)](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/2024.2/Examples/Block_Help/AIE/FIR_InterpolationFilter_Ex2)

[![](./Images/FIR_Interpolation_Ex3.png)](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/2024.2/Examples/Block_Help/AIE/FIR_InterpolationFilter_Ex3)

### References
This block uses the Vitis DSP library implementation of a FIR filter. For more details on this implementation please click [here](https://docs.xilinx.com/r/en-US/Vitis_Libraries/dsp/user_guide/L2/func-fir-filtersAIE.html).
--------------
Copyright (C) 2024 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
All rights reserved.

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
