AIE/IFFT/README.md, before:

# IFFT
IFFT implementation targeted for AI Engines.
  
![](./Images/block.png)  

## Library

AI Engine/DSP/Buffer IO

## Description

This block implements the Inverse FFT targeted for AI Engines which use
the rounding method and saturates the output samples on overflow.

## Parameters

### Main  
#### Input data type  
Set the data type of the block input. The data type of the input signal to the block must match this setting. Valid types are `cint16`, `cint32`, `cfloat`.

#### Output data type
Set the data type of the block output. Valid types are `cint16`, `cint32`, `cfloat`.

#### Twiddle factor data type
Describes the data type of the twiddle factors of the transform. It must be `cint16`, `cint32`, or `cfloat` and must also satisfy the following rules:
* 32-bit twiddle factors are only supported when the input/output data type is also 32-bit.
* The twiddle factor data type must be an integer type if the input/output data type is an integer type.
* The twiddle factor data type must be `cfloat` if the input/output data type is a float type.

#### IFFT size  
This is an unsigned integer which describes the point size of the
transformation. This must be 2^N, where N is in the range 4 to 16
inclusive. 

#### Input Window Size (Number of Samples)  
Describes the number of samples used as an input to the IFFT.

#### Scale output down by 2^  
Describes the power of 2 to scale the result by prior to output.

#### Rounding mode

Describes the selection of rounding to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **Round to positive infinity:** Round halfway towards positive infinity.
* **Round to negative infinity:** Round halfway towards negative infinity.
* **Round symmetrical to infinity:** Round halfway towards infinity (away from zero).
* **Round symmetrical to zero:** Round halfway towards zero (away from infinity).
* **Round convergent to even:** Round halfway towards nearest even number.
* **Round convergent to odd:** Round halfway towards nearest odd number.

These modes round to the nearest integer. They differ only in how they round for values that are exactly between two integers.

#### Saturation mode

Describes the selection of saturation to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **None:** No saturation is performed and the value is truncated on the MSB side.
* **Asymmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)` to `2^(n-1)-1`.
* **Symmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)-1` to `2^(n-1)-1`.

#### Twiddle Mode
This parameter controls the amplitude of the twiddle factors. It applies to `cint16` and `cint32` twiddle factors only; it does not apply to `cfloat` twiddle factors.

Twiddle mode 0 means use max amplitude twiddles which saturate at `2^(N-1)-1`, where N is the number of bits in the type (e.g. `cint16` has 16 bits per component).

Twiddle mode 1 means use 1/2 max magnitude twiddles, i.e. `2^(N-1)`. This avoids saturation, but loses 1 bit of precision and so noise overall will be higher.

#### Use Widget for SSR Kernels
This parameter is applicable to streaming and parallel (SSR>1) implementations of the FFT. These implementations require stream to window conversions on the hardware.

When this parameter is disabled, stream to window conversion will occur within the FFT kernels themselves.

When this parameter is enabled, stream to window conversion will occur on its own AI Engine tiles. This will improve performance at the expense of additional tiles being used.

####  Number of Cascade Stages
This determines the number of kernels the FFT will be divided over in series to improve throughput. For int data types, and FFT size of 2^N, the maximum cascade length is N/2 when N is even and (N+1)/2 when N is odd. For float data type, the maximum cascade length is N.

## Examples 

***Click on the images below to open each model.***

[![](./Images/IFFT_example.png)](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/2024.2/Examples/Block_Help/AIE/IFFT_Ex1)


--------------
Copyright (C) 2024 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
All rights reserved.

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

Commit message:

Update links to DSP library documentation

AIE/IFFT/README.md, after:

# IFFT
IFFT implementation targeted for AI Engines.
  
![](./Images/block.png)  

## Library

AI Engine/DSP/Buffer IO

## Description

This block implements the Inverse FFT targeted for AI Engines which use
the rounding method and saturates the output samples on overflow.

## Parameters

### Main  
#### Input data type  
Set the data type of the block input. The data type of the input signal to the block must match this setting. Valid types are `cint16`, `cint32`, `cfloat`.

#### Output data type
Set the data type of the block output. Valid types are `cint16`, `cint32`, `cfloat`.

#### Twiddle factor data type
Describes the data type of the twiddle factors of the transform. It must be `cint16`, `cint32`, or `cfloat` and must also satisfy the following rules:
* 32-bit twiddle factors are only supported when the input/output data type is also 32-bit.
* The twiddle factor data type must be an integer type if the input/output data type is an integer type.
* The twiddle factor data type must be `cfloat` if the input/output data type is a float type.

#### IFFT size  
This is an unsigned integer which describes the point size of the
transformation. This must be 2^N, where N is in the range 4 to 16
inclusive. 

#### Input Window Size (Number of Samples)  
Describes the number of samples used as an input to the IFFT.

#### Scale output down by 2^  
Describes the power of 2 to scale the result by prior to output.

#### Rounding mode

Describes the selection of rounding to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **Round to positive infinity:** Round halfway towards positive infinity.
* **Round to negative infinity:** Round halfway towards negative infinity.
* **Round symmetrical to infinity:** Round halfway towards infinity (away from zero).
* **Round symmetrical to zero:** Round halfway towards zero (away from infinity).
* **Round convergent to even:** Round halfway towards nearest even number.
* **Round convergent to odd:** Round halfway towards nearest odd number.

These modes round to the nearest integer. They differ only in how they round for values that are exactly between two integers.

#### Saturation mode

Describes the selection of saturation to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **None:** No saturation is performed and the value is truncated on the MSB side.
* **Asymmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)` to `2^(n-1)-1`.
* **Symmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)-1` to `2^(n-1)-1`.

#### Twiddle Mode
This parameter controls the amplitude of the twiddle factors. It applies to `cint16` and `cint32` twiddle factors only; it does not apply to `cfloat` twiddle factors.

Twiddle mode 0 means use max amplitude twiddles which saturate at `2^(N-1)-1`, where N is the number of bits in the type (e.g. `cint16` has 16 bits per component).

Twiddle mode 1 means use 1/2 max magnitude twiddles, i.e. `2^(N-1)`. This avoids saturation, but loses 1 bit of precision and so noise overall will be higher.

#### Use Widget for SSR Kernels
This parameter is applicable to streaming and parallel (SSR>1) implementations of the FFT. These implementations require stream to window conversions on the hardware.

When this parameter is disabled, stream to window conversion will occur within the FFT kernels themselves.

When this parameter is enabled, stream to window conversion will occur on its own AI Engine tiles. This will improve performance at the expense of additional tiles being used.

####  Number of Cascade Stages
This determines the number of kernels the FFT will be divided over in series to improve throughput. For int data types, and FFT size of 2^N, the maximum cascade length is N/2 when N is even and (N+1)/2 when N is odd. For float data type, the maximum cascade length is N.

## Examples 

***Click on the images below to open each model.***

[![](./Images/IFFT_example.png)](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/2024.2/Examples/Block_Help/AIE/IFFT_Ex1)

## References
This block uses the Vitis DSP library implementation of IFFT. For more details on this implementation please click [here](https://docs.xilinx.com/r/en-US/Vitis_Libraries/dsp/user_guide/L2/func-fft-ifft-aie-only.html).


--------------
Copyright (C) 2024 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
All rights reserved.

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
