AIE/FIR_Symmetric/README.md, before:

# FIR Symmetric
Single Rate Symmetric FIR Filter for AI Engines.
  
![](./Images/block.png)  

## Library

AI Engine/DSP/Buffer IO

## Description

Single Rate Symmetric FIR Filter for AI Engines.

## Parameters

### Main  
#### Input/Output data type  
Set the data type of the block input and output. The data type of the input signal to the block must match this setting.

#### Filter coefficients data type  
Set the filter coefficients data type. This parameter's setting may be restricted based on the Input/Output data type:

  - Complex types are only supported when the Input/Output data type is
  also complex.
  - 32-bit types are only supported when the Input/Output data type is
  also a 32-bit type.
  - Filter coefficients data type must be an integer type if the
  Input/Output data type is an integer type.
  - Filter coefficients data type must be a float type if the Input/Output
  data type is a float type.

#### Specify filter coefficients via input port  
When this option is enabled, the tool allows you to specify reloadable filter coefficients via an input port.

#### Provide second set of input ports
When this option is enabled, a second input port can be connected to the FIR, increasing available throughput. In Simulink, both input ports should be connected to the same signal.

This setting is an implementation trade-off between performance and data bank resources. When this option is disabled, the FIR performance may be limited by load contention; when this option is enabled, two RAM banks are used for input, reducing load contention.

#### Provide second set of output ports
When this option is enabled, a second output port is added to the block producing the same data as the first output port.

#### Filter coefficients
This field specifies the asymmetric filter coefficients. It could also be a MATLAB array variable defined in the workspace.

This field should only be supplied for the first half of the filter
length plus the center tap for odd lengths i.e., taps\[\] = {c0, c1, c2,
..., cN \[, cCT\]} where N = (FILTER_LENGTH)/2 and cCT is the center tap
when FILTER_LENGTH is odd. For example, a 7-tap filter might use coeffs
(1, 3, 2, 5, 2, 3, 1). This could be input as taps\[\]= {1,3,2,5}
because the context of symmetry allows the remaining coefficients to be
inferred.

#### Filter length  
This is an unsigned integer which describes the number of taps in the
filter.

#### Input window size (Number of samples)  
Describes the number of samples used as an input to the filter function. Because this is a single rate filter, the number of samples in the output window will match the size of the input window.

#### Scale output down by 2^  
Sets the power of 2 shift down applied to the accumulator of FIR before output. It must be in the range of 0 to 61.

#### Rounding mode

Describes the selection of rounding to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **Floor:** Truncate LSB, always round down (towards negative infinity).
* **Ceiling:** Always round up (towards positive infinity).
* **Round to positive infinity:** Round halfway towards positive infinity.
* **Round to negative infinity:** Round halfway towards negative infinity.
* **Round symmetrical to infinity:** Round halfway towards infinity (away from zero).
* **Round symmetrical to zero:** Round halfway towards zero (away from infinity).
* **Round convergent to even:** Round halfway towards nearest even number.
* **Round convergent to odd:** Round halfway towards nearest odd number.

No rounding is performed on the **Floor** or **Ceiling** modes. Other modes round to the nearest integer. They differ only in how they round for values that are exactly between two integers.

#### Saturation mode

Describes the selection of saturation to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **None:** No saturation is performed and the value is truncated on the MSB side.
* **Asymmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)` to `2^(n-1)-1`.
* **Symmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)-1` to `2^(n-1)-1`.
  
#### Number of cascade stages
Determines the number of AI Engine processors to split the operation over. This allows AI Engine tiles to be traded for higher throughput. See the example below on how the number of cascade stages affect the throughput.

The number of AI Engine tiles used is determined by `(SSR)^2 * (Number of cascade stages)`.

### Constraints
Click on the button given here to access the constraint manager and add or update constraints for each kernel. If you set the "Number of cascade stages" parameter to a value greater than one, multiple kernels will be used to process the input. You can use the constraint manager to optimize the performance of your design by setting specific constraints for each kernel (in this case, you need to first run your design). Adding constraints will not affect the functional simulation in Simulink. Constraints will only affect the generated graph code, cycle approximate AIE simulation (System C), and behavior in hardware.

**_NOTE_** If you are using non-default constraints for any of the kernels for the block, an asterisk (*) will be displayed next to the button.

## Examples

***Click on the images below to open each model.***

[![](./Images/FIR_Symmetric_Ex1.png)](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/2024.2/Examples/Block_Help/AIE/FIR_Symmetric_Ex1)

[AI Engine FIR Asymmetric](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/HEAD/Examples/AIENGINE/DSPlib/fir)

---
**_NOTE:_**  For more details on this function and other AI Engine filter functions available, please click [here](https://docs.xilinx.com/r/en-US/Vitis_Libraries/dsp/user_guide/L2/func-fir-filters.html).


--------------
Copyright (C) 2024 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
All rights reserved.

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

Commit message:

Update links to DSP library documentation

AIE/FIR_Symmetric/README.md, after:

# FIR Symmetric
Single Rate Symmetric FIR Filter for AI Engines.
  
![](./Images/block.png)  

## Library

AI Engine/DSP/Buffer IO

## Description

Single Rate Symmetric FIR Filter for AI Engines.

## Parameters

### Main  
#### Input/Output data type  
Set the data type of the block input and output. The data type of the input signal to the block must match this setting.

#### Filter coefficients data type  
Set the filter coefficients data type. This parameter's setting may be restricted based on the Input/Output data type:

  - Complex types are only supported when the Input/Output data type is
  also complex.
  - 32-bit types are only supported when the Input/Output data type is
  also a 32-bit type.
  - Filter coefficients data type must be an integer type if the
  Input/Output data type is an integer type.
  - Filter coefficients data type must be a float type if the Input/Output
  data type is a float type.

#### Specify filter coefficients via input port  
When this option is enabled, the tool allows you to specify reloadable filter coefficients via an input port.

#### Provide second set of input ports
When this option is enabled, a second input port can be connected to the FIR, increasing available throughput. In Simulink, both input ports should be connected to the same signal.

This setting is an implementation trade-off between performance and data bank resources. When this option is disabled, the FIR performance may be limited by load contention; when this option is enabled, two RAM banks are used for input, reducing load contention.

#### Provide second set of output ports
When this option is enabled, a second output port is added to the block producing the same data as the first output port.

#### Filter coefficients
This field specifies the asymmetric filter coefficients. It could also be a MATLAB array variable defined in the workspace.

This field should only be supplied for the first half of the filter
length plus the center tap for odd lengths i.e., taps\[\] = {c0, c1, c2,
..., cN \[, cCT\]} where N = (FILTER_LENGTH)/2 and cCT is the center tap
when FILTER_LENGTH is odd. For example, a 7-tap filter might use coeffs
(1, 3, 2, 5, 2, 3, 1). This could be input as taps\[\]= {1,3,2,5}
because the context of symmetry allows the remaining coefficients to be
inferred.

#### Filter length  
This is an unsigned integer which describes the number of taps in the
filter.

#### Input window size (Number of samples)  
Describes the number of samples used as an input to the filter function. Because this is a single rate filter, the number of samples in the output window will match the size of the input window.

#### Scale output down by 2^  
Sets the power of 2 shift down applied to the accumulator of FIR before output. It must be in the range of 0 to 61.

#### Rounding mode

Describes the selection of rounding to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **Floor:** Truncate LSB, always round down (towards negative infinity).
* **Ceiling:** Always round up (towards positive infinity).
* **Round to positive infinity:** Round halfway towards positive infinity.
* **Round to negative infinity:** Round halfway towards negative infinity.
* **Round symmetrical to infinity:** Round halfway towards infinity (away from zero).
* **Round symmetrical to zero:** Round halfway towards zero (away from infinity).
* **Round convergent to even:** Round halfway towards nearest even number.
* **Round convergent to odd:** Round halfway towards nearest odd number.

No rounding is performed on the **Floor** or **Ceiling** modes. Other modes round to the nearest integer. They differ only in how they round for values that are exactly between two integers.

#### Saturation mode

Describes the selection of saturation to be applied during the shift down stage of processing.

The following modes are available:
* **None:** No saturation is performed and the value is truncated on the MSB side.
* **Asymmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)` to `2^(n-1)-1`.
* **Symmetric:** Rounds an n-bit signed value in the range `-2^(n-1)-1` to `2^(n-1)-1`.
  
#### Number of cascade stages
Determines the number of AI Engine processors to split the operation over. This allows AI Engine tiles to be traded for higher throughput. See the example below on how the number of cascade stages affect the throughput.

The number of AI Engine tiles used is determined by `(SSR)^2 * (Number of cascade stages)`.

### Constraints
Click on the button given here to access the constraint manager and add or update constraints for each kernel. If you set the "Number of cascade stages" parameter to a value greater than one, multiple kernels will be used to process the input. You can use the constraint manager to optimize the performance of your design by setting specific constraints for each kernel (in this case, you need to first run your design). Adding constraints will not affect the functional simulation in Simulink. Constraints will only affect the generated graph code, cycle approximate AIE simulation (System C), and behavior in hardware.

**_NOTE_** If you are using non-default constraints for any of the kernels for the block, an asterisk (*) will be displayed next to the button.

## Examples

***Click on the images below to open each model.***

[![](./Images/FIR_Symmetric_Ex1.png)](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/2024.2/Examples/Block_Help/AIE/FIR_Symmetric_Ex1)

[AI Engine FIR Asymmetric](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Model_Composer/tree/HEAD/Examples/AIENGINE/DSPlib/fir)

---
**_NOTE:_**  For more details on this function and other AI Engine filter functions available, please click [here](https://docs.xilinx.com/r/en-US/Vitis_Libraries/dsp/user_guide/L2/func-fir-filters.html).

### References
This block uses the Vitis DSP library implementation of a FIR filter. For more details on this implementation please click [here](https://docs.xilinx.com/r/en-US/Vitis_Libraries/dsp/user_guide/L2/func-fir-filtersAIE.html).
--------------
Copyright (C) 2024 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
All rights reserved.

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
